**DATA COLLECTION INFORMATION**

Data from Study 1 were provided by Fravega, an Argentinian retailer of household and tech appliances, to the third author. Collected in spring 2020 by the company under the third author's supervision, these data were analyzed by the third author with input from the first and sixth authors. The posttest and alternative explanations tests for Study 1 were conducted in February 2025 by the first author, who also analyzed the data. Study 2's main study and pretest were conducted via Prolific in February 2025 by the first and second authors. The posttest and alternative explanations tests were conducted online in March 2025 by the same authors. All Study 2 data were analyzed by the first and second authors. Data for Study 3 were again provided by Fravega to the third author. Collected in December 2021 under the third author's supervision, these data were analyzed by the third author with input from the first and sixth authors. The posttest and alternative explanations tests for Study 3 were conducted in February 2025 by the first author, who also analyzed the data. Study 4's main study and pretest were conducted via Prolific in February 2025 by the first and second authors. The posttest and alternative explanations tests were conducted in March 2025 by the same authors, who analyzed all tests and study data. Study 5's main study and alternative explanations test were conducted via Prolific in March 2025 by the first author and analyzed by the first and second authors. The Web Appendix F study (i.e., Study 5 procedure with category-level price expectations) was conducted in April 2024 by the first author and analyzed by the first and second authors. The Web Appendix G study (a conceptual replication of Study 5) was also conducted in April 2024 by the first author and analyzed by the first and second authors. Data for Study 6 were collected via Prolific in August 2024 by the first author and analyzed by the first and second authors with input from all other authors. The posttest and alternative explanations tests for Study 6 were conducted in March 2025 by the first author and analyzed by the first and second authors. The raw data for all studies, code (SPSS for lab studies and STATA/R for field studies), Qualtrics survey files (.qsf), and preregistration documents for the lab surveys and studies are available on the Open Science Framework website: (<https://osf.io/xt42w/?view_only=f6169fde8e7b4578be228f18abf79e19>).
